# MSCS532_Assignment5

## Overview
This repository contains an analysis of the **Randomized QuickSort** algorithm and the implementation of a **hash table with chaining**. The project includes Python scripts to demonstrate the behavior and performance of these two data structures, with visual outputs generated as evidence.

The primary components of the project are:
- Randomized QuickSort analysis through runtime data and graphing.
- Generated output images showcasing the results of the algorithms.

## Project Structure

- **evidences/**: A directory containing images that showcase the results of the algorithms.
  - `runtime_graph.png`: The runtime graph generated by `randomized_quicksort.py`, depicting the algorithm’s performance.
  - `runtime_data1.png`: A chart visualizing the runtime data for different input sizes from `randomized_quicksort.py` - First Halve.
  - `runtime_data2.png`: A chart visualizing the runtime data for different input sizes from `randomized_quicksort.py` - Second Halve.


- **randomized_quicksort.py**: Python script that performs an analysis of the **Randomized QuickSort** algorithm vs **Deterministic QuickSort**. It generates runtime data and graphs based on different input sizes.
  


- **Analysis_Report.pdf**: A report regarding the analysis of quicksort algorithms.

- **requirements.txt**: A file containing the dependencies required to run the Python code. Use this file to set up the Python environment.

## Getting Started

To get started with the project, follow the instructions below to set up your environment and run the Python scripts.

### 1. Install dependencies:
The project requires several Python libraries that are listed in `requirements.txt`. You can install them using `pip`. Run the following command to install the dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 2. Run Python Code:
Run the following command to run `randomized_quicksort`:
```bash
python3 randomized_quicksort.py
```




